.\" Man page for bsdrX (bsdr_agent). Format: man(7) / groff.
.TH BSDR_AGENT 1 "2026-07-04" "bsdrX" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bsdr_agent \- Bigscreen Remote Desktop host agent (stream a Linux/macOS desktop to a Bigscreen VR headset)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bsdr_agent
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bsdr_agent
is the PC host side of the Bigscreen Remote Desktop protocol. It streams this
machine's desktop (H.264 video, Opus audio) to a paired Bigscreen VR headset over
the LAN using the reverse-engineered Bigscreen wire format, injects the headset's
mouse/keyboard into the local desktop, and optionally relays the session to the
Bigscreen cloud room ("internet sharing").
.PP
Pairing is automatic: the headset discovers this PC on the LAN; the pairing code is
shown at startup and broadcast in discovery. A local web control panel (default
http://127.0.0.1:8088) drives the session, the owner-mic sniffer, and voice
computer control.
.PP
The agent runs on Linux (full: capture, audio, sniffer, computer control) and
macOS (audio + owner-mic sniffer; see
.BR docs/macos.md ).
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Source (what to stream)
.TP
.BI \-\-file " PATH"
Stream a video source instead of the live desktop. The source is decoded and re-encoded so an in-VR
media bar (play/pause, seek, volume, exit) is composited onto it, and its own audio is streamed.
\fIPATH\fR may be a local file or an \fBhttp\fR, \fBhttps\fR or \fBrtsp\fR URL. If \fIPATH\fR ends
in \fB.txt\fR it is treated as a playlist (one file or URL per line; blank lines and #comments
skipped; only http/https/rtsp URL schemes accepted, pipe/concat rejected) streamed in a loop. A
single source loops at its end.
.TP
.B \-\-file\-gpu
Encode the \fB\-\-file\fR stream on the GPU (NVENC) instead of libx264 (the default). libx264
usually looks better at the low bitrates the headset requests; use this to offload the CPU.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-video
Don't stream video (input/control only).
.TP
.B \-\-no\-audio
Don't stream desktop audio or expose the headset mic.
.SS 2D-to-3D (side-by-side)
Convert the stream to side-by-side stereo in real time. The Bigscreen remote screen can display an
SBS frame in 3D \(em set your screen to SBS 3D in the headset to view it. This runs on the CPU
NV12 frame, so enabling it forces the CPU-scale encode path (no VAAPI/CUDA/kmsgrab).
.TP
.BI \-\-threed " MODE"
\fBoff\fR (default), \fBfast\fR, or \fBai\fR. \fBfast\fR is a light built-in depth heuristic
(vertical gradient + luma) that runs comfortably on old laptops. \fBai\fR uses the external depth
helper from \fB\-\-threed\-ai\fR at a reduced rate with temporal reuse; if the helper is missing,
stalls, or dies, 3D falls back to \fBfast\fR automatically.
.TP
.BI \-\-threed\-deepness " N"
Depth amount, 0\(en100 (default 35): the maximum eye disparity as a fraction of frame width.
.TP
.BI \-\-threed\-convergence " N"
Screen-plane bias, \-50\(en50: moves the zero-parallax plane nearer/farther to tune comfort and
reduce eye strain.
.TP
.B \-\-threed\-swap
Swap the left/right eye halves (if the headset's SBS eye order is reversed).
.TP
.B \-\-threed\-full
Full resolution per eye. By default 3D renders as a light half-SBS frame at the headset's requested
resolution (each squished eye is half-width). This option instead renders the side-by-side frame at
2x linear resolution while keeping the screen's aspect ratio, so each eye holds ~2x the detail \(em
sharper, but ~4x the pixels (high CPU, and the encode bitrate is doubled to match, so it needs a
strong PC and good Wi-Fi). The frame is NOT made wider (a 2x-wide frame would make the Quest's
screen double-wide instead of 3D). Also toggleable in the web panel.
.TP
.BI \-\-threed\-ai " CMD"
External depth-estimator command for \fBai\fR mode (implies \fB\-\-threed ai\fR). bsdrX pipes it a
small grayscale frame and reads back a depth map, framed as the 8-byte header
.RB ( BSDD ", " "u16 width, u16 height, little-endian" )
followed by \fIwidth\fR\(mu\fIheight\fR gray bytes (input luma; output depth, 0=far..255=near), in
each direction. The helper loops one reply per request, and is called at a reduced rate. A
ready-to-use helper ships as
.BR scripts/bsdr-depth-helper.py :
real monocular depth with a MiDaS-small ONNX model (\fB\-\-model\fR), or a built-in focus/gradient
heuristic if no model is given, e.g.
.RB ( "python3 scripts/bsdr-depth-helper.py --model midas_v21_small.onnx" ).
Without a command \(em or if the helper stalls or dies \(em 3D falls back to \fBfast\fR. All 3D
options are also settable live from the web panel.
.SS Headset
.TP
.BI \-\-quest_ip " IP"
Only pair with this headset; ignore all others.
.TP
.B \-\-control\-only
Run discovery + control + web UI, but never stream.
.SS Owner mic (intercept the headset owner's voice)
The remote-desktop protocol has no mic-upload channel; the owner's voice only goes
to the Bigscreen room (cloud) as plain Opus RTP. These options intercept that
stream off the LAN and expose it as the virtual microphone
.B BSDR-Quest-OwnerMic .
.TP
.B \-\-sniff\-mic
Passively sniff the owner's room mic and expose it as the owner-only virtual mic.
Uses \fB\-\-quest_ip\fR if set, else the paired headset. The privileged capture runs
in a helper started via sudo; it can also be toggled from the web panel.
.TP
.B \-\-sniff\-mitm
Also ARP-spoof the headset\(<->gateway path so a switched LAN routes the traffic
through this host (toggles IP forwarding; heals ARP on exit). Implies \fB\-\-sniff\-mic\fR.
Supported on Linux, macOS, and Windows. On Windows it runs in-process (needs Npcap and
Administrator); IP forwarding is toggled via EnableRouter and neighbour MACs via SendARP.
.TP
.BI \-\-sniff\-iface " IF"
Capture interface (default: the default-route interface).
.TP
.BI \-\-sniff\-gw " IP"
Gateway IP for \fB\-\-sniff\-mitm\fR (default: the default-route gateway).
.TP
.BI \-\-sniff\-remote " PORT"
Receive the owner mic from the router companion
.BR bsdr_micrelay (1)
on this UDP port instead of capturing locally. The router is already in the path for the headset's
traffic, so this works over Wi-Fi with no ARP-spoofing or monitor mode and no root on this host.
It captures the headset's own uplink, so the result is owner-only. Run on the router:
.B bsdr_micrelay \-\-iface br\-lan \-\-quest <headset\-ip> \-\-to <this\-host>:PORT .
Implies \fB\-\-sniff\-mic\fR.
.SS Voice computer control
See
.BR docs/computer-control.md .
A movable balloon is drawn over the desktop in VR; click it to speak a command,
which is transcribed (STT) and run by an LLM through a desktop tool set
(type_text, key, click, scroll, open_app). Endpoints are configured in the web
panel; computer control can be enabled only while the owner mic is running.
.TP
.B \-\-compctl
Arm voice-driven desktop control (the in-VR balloon). Requires an owner-mic source \(em the LAN
sniffer (\fB\-\-sniff\-mic\fR/\fB\-\-sniff\-mitm\fR), the router companion (\fB\-\-sniff\-remote\fR),
or the cloud-room fallback enabled in the web panel (which isolates the owner by ducking other
room voices while a command is spoken) \(em and an LLM endpoint set in the web panel.
Speech-to-text falls back to a free, keyless online service if none is configured.
Also toggleable from the web panel.
.TP
.B \-\-compctl\-vision
Also offer the model a take_screenshot tool so a vision-capable model can look at
the desktop when a request needs it. Implies \fB\-\-compctl\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-listen\-max " SEC"
Listening ceiling per command (default 300 = 5 minutes; silence ends a capture
sooner).
.TP
.BI \-\-confirm\-timeout " SEC"
Auto-cancel the in-VR Send/Cancel prompt after this long (default 60).
.SS Web control panel
.TP
.BI \-\-ui\-port " N"
Port for the local control panel (default 8088).
.TP
.B \-\-no\-ui
Disable the web control panel.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-browser
Don't auto-open the panel in a browser at startup.
.SS Internet sharing (cloud relay)
.TP
.B \-\-no\-cloud\-video
Don't relay video to the room (default: on).
.TP
.B \-\-no\-cloud\-audio
Don't relay desktop audio to the room (default: on).
.TP
.B \-\-video\-decoupled
Relay runs its own capture+encoder instead of reusing the LAN encode.
.TP
.BI \-\-cloud\-data " MODE"
Data channel transport: \fBraw\fR (SCTP-over-UDP) or \fBdtls\fR (auto if unset).
.TP
.BI \-\-cloud\-dtls\-role " ROLE"
DTLS role for the data channel: \fBclient\fR, \fBserver\fR, or auto if unset.
.TP
.BI \-\-cloud\-latch\-burst " N"
Number of valid-RTP comedia keepalives sent on each share start to (re)latch the
Mediasoup relay onto this host's source tuple (default 12; 3 = the previous
behaviour, 0 = off). Sent again on every off/on toggle, so it doubles as a re-latch.
.TP
.BI \-\-cloud\-src\-port " N"
Hard-pin the cloud media source ports: video = \fIN\fR, audio = \fIN\fR+1,
data = \fIN\fR+2 (0 = off). Overrides sticky ports. The Mediasoup relay
comedia-latches each transport onto the source tuple it first sees and will not
re-latch while the screen is presenting, so reusing the same ports keeps the
latch valid across toggles.
.TP
.B \-\-cloud\-no\-sticky\-ports
Disable sticky source ports. By DEFAULT bsdrX lets the OS pick ephemeral source
ports on the first stream to a relay IP (like the official client), then reuses
those exact ports for that relay across share off/on toggles so the relay's
comedia latch keeps matching; a new relay IP or a process restart starts fresh.
This flag reverts to a fresh ephemeral port on every toggle (the old behaviour
that made the relay go silent after a restart).
.SS Performance
.TP
.B \-\-cpu
Force the full software path: CPU scale/convert AND libx264 encode. NVENC is less bit-efficient
than x264 at the low bitrates the headset requests, so this is the best-quality desktop option
(at a CPU cost). Default: try the CUDA GPU pipeline (NVENC, 2-pass, high quality preset).
.TP
.B \-\-lan\-1x
Send LAN video once instead of twice \(em halves the uplink on weak Wi-Fi.
.TP
.B \-\-vaapi
Encode on the iGPU via VAAPI instead of NVENC.
.TP
.B \-\-kmsgrab
Capture via DRM/KMS instead of x11grab (zero-copy with \fB\-\-vaapi\fR). Note: the
computer-control balloon is not composited on this zero-copy path.
.TP
.B \-\-sendmmsg
Batch each NAL's UDP fragments into one syscall.
.TP
.BI \-\-max\-bitrate " BPS"
Hard cap the encode bitrate, overriding the headset.
.SS Diagnostics
.TP
.BI \-\-replay " FILE"
Replay captured 45002 frames verbatim (protocol testing).
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-debug
Verbose/debug logging.
.TP
.B \-\-insecure\-tls
Skip TLS certificate verification on the Bigscreen cloud/API connections (default: verify against
the system trust store). For self-signed dev proxies or offline testing only \(em otherwise it
exposes the account login to man-in-the-middle.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show usage and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Stream the desktop to any headset that pairs, with the web panel on the default port:
.B bsdr_agent
.TP
Intercept the owner's voice into a virtual mic on a switched LAN:
.B bsdr_agent \-\-sniff\-mitm
.TP
Voice-driven computer control with on-demand vision (set the LLM endpoint in the panel):
.B bsdr_agent \-\-sniff\-mic \-\-compctl\-vision
.SH FILES
.TP
.B BSDR-Quest-OwnerMic
Virtual microphone carrying only the headset owner's voice (created by the sniffer).
.TP
.B ~/  (web panel)
http://127.0.0.1:8088 by default \(em Bigscreen login, source picker (file browser, http/https/rtsp
URLs, .txt playlists), 2D-to-3D mode with deepness/convergence calibration, owner mic (incl. the
cloud-room fallback and the router companion for Wi-Fi), computer control, internet sharing, and the
privacy screen-blank toggle.
.SH NETWORK PORTS
Discovery UDP 45000, HTTP control 45678, video UDP 45002, audio UDP 45003, DTLS
input UDP 45004, web panel TCP 8088 (default).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bsdr_micrelay (1).
Project documentation:
.BR README.md ", " docs/computer-control.md ", " docs/macos.md ", " docs/capture-cloud-session.md .
.SH AUTHOR
Stefy Lanza <stefy@nexlab.net>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2026 Stefy Lanza. GNU General Public License v3 or later.
.SH BUGS
After a Bigscreen game update, IL2CPP names/offsets may shift; re-run the protocol
dump. Report issues to the project tracker.
