.TH BSDR_MICRELAY 1 "2026-07-18" "bsdrX" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bsdr_micrelay \- router-side owner-mic relay for bsdrX (auto-discovering, multi-headset)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bsdr_micrelay
.BI \-\-iface " IF"
.RB [ \-\-port " N" ]
.RB [ \-\-verbose ]
.br
.B bsdr_micrelay
.BI \-\-iface " IF"
.BI \-\-quest " HEADSET-IP"
.BI \-\-to " HOST:PORT"
.SH DESCRIPTION
A Bigscreen VR headset sends its microphone only to the Bigscreen cloud (as plain Opus RTP); there
is no LAN mic-upload channel. On a wired LAN,
.BR bsdr_agent (1)
can ARP-spoof to intercept that stream, but over Wi-Fi it cannot \(em the access point bridges
per-station traffic, so the headset's mic never reaches the host's radio.
.PP
The router, however, is in the path for every packet the headset sends.
.B bsdr_micrelay
runs on the router, captures the headset's outbound UDP with libpcap, and forwards the raw IPv4
packets to a bsdrX host running
.BR "bsdr_agent \-\-sniff\-remote" .
bsdrX then decodes them through its normal owner-mic path, exposing the
.B BSDR-Quest-OwnerMic
virtual microphone and feeding voice computer-control. Because it captures the headset's own
uplink, the result is the owner's voice only \(em no room mixing, no MITM, no monitor mode.
.PP
.B Auto-discovery and multiple headsets.
Run with only
.BI \-\-iface " IF"
and the relay is zero-config: it broadcasts a beacon on UDP port 45099, each
.B bsdr_agent
on the LAN hears it and registers for the headset it is paired with, and the relay forwards each
headset's mic to its own agent \(em serving many headsets and agents in parallel. Authorisation is
.IR bind-to-owner :
because the relay is in the path it observes each headset\(<->agent bsdrX session (the remote-desktop
UDP ports) and forwards a headset's mic only to the agent it actually saw paired with that headset,
so a rogue LAN host cannot siphon someone else's owner voice. The registration heartbeat keeps a flow
alive; when an agent stops (or unregisters) its flow is dropped. The legacy
.BI \-\-quest " HEADSET-IP"
/
.BI \-\-to " HOST:PORT"
form still works for a single static flow that skips discovery and the pairing check.
.PP
.B Cloud voice substitution.
When bsdrX has the voice changer's \(lqsubstitute into the cloud\(rq option on, it re\-encodes the
changed voice and sends the modified RTP back to the relay over the same UDP link. The relay then
installs an
.B iptables
FORWARD DROP for the headset\(->cloud flow (suppressing the originals) and forwards bsdrX's modified
audio to the cloud from its own socket, so the room hears the changed voice. This needs root on the
router (for the DROP rule); the relay does no codec work itself, and reverts to passthrough
automatically if bsdrX stops driving it. It is controlled entirely by bsdrX \(em no extra flags.
.PP
The binary is fully static (bundled libpcap), so it can be copied straight onto a router. Prebuilt
binaries for common router and PC architectures ship in
.B bsdrX_relay.zip
(see
.BR distribute.sh );
an OpenWRT package recipe is in
.BR openwrt/bsdr-micrelay/ .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-iface " IF"
Capture interface \(em the router LAN/bridge the headsets are on (for example
.BR br-lan ).
.TP
.BI \-\-port " N"
Control/discovery UDP port (default 45099). The beacon and each agent's listen socket share this
port, so if you change it, set the same port on the agent side (its relay port /
.BR "\-\-sniff\-remote N" ).
At the default on both, discovery is fully zero-config.
.TP
.BR \-\-verbose ", " \-v
Log denied registrations and per-flow detail.
.TP
.BI \-\-quest " HEADSET-IP"
(Static mode) A headset's IPv4 address; with
.BR \-\-to ,
forward only its packets, skipping discovery and the pairing check.
.TP
.BI \-\-to " HOST:PORT"
(Static mode) The bsdrX host and the UDP port it listens on
.RB ( "bsdr_agent \-\-sniff\-remote PORT" ).
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage and exit.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
Raw packet capture needs root or the
.B CAP_NET_RAW
capability on the router. libpcap is statically linked into the prebuilt binaries; when building
from source it is the only dependency.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Auto (recommended) \(em on the router, serving every paired agent/headset:
.B bsdr_micrelay \-\-iface br\-lan
.TP
On each bsdrX host (or just enable the relay owner-mic method in the web panel):
.B bsdr_agent \-\-sniff\-remote 45099
.TP
Static single flow (headset 192.168.1.50, bsdrX host 192.168.1.10), no discovery/auth:
.B bsdr_micrelay \-\-iface br\-lan \-\-quest 192.168.1.50 \-\-to 192.168.1.10:45099
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bsdr_agent (1).
.SH AUTHOR
Stefy Lanza <stefy@nexlab.net>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2026 Stefy Lanza. GNU General Public License v3 or later.
